The gun is a very clever young man.
I know about his mind, but he was threatening to embarrass the committee by reporting
that Mr. Poong was looking for a special favor for Mr. Shire.
Well, now Senator, so that I, and perhaps the mother, others of us, could be a little
clear about it.
Did you get that, if that's become clear to you simply because Mr. Adams discussed the
problem at the same meeting he discussed the law, or did he...
Did he use any work?
He talked to him on the first thing he talked about, how embarrassing it would be if
we claimed that Colin had asked for special orders for Shire and the late public, talked
about how it might wreck the committee and how it would make it difficult for us to work.
It was just a general discussion along that line and he was the...
As I say, he never said, I am going to issue a report for a senior reporter charges against Colin,
but there was no doubt in his mind, I'm sure, and there certainly was no doubt in my mind.
So, unless I would agree to call off the hearings that would happen, now I may say Mr.
Shire was inquired this might enlighten us somewhat on subject.
I think I mentioned the term blackmail, I think I mentioned the term blackmail at evening to John,
oh, at least half a dozen times.
And you were serious when you mentioned the term blackmail, were you not?
Well, I was very serious.
It's a very serious matter to have someone that tends to blackmail a senator, the United States senator,
and it has not.
It is, but really I assume Mr. Shire, that there is no point in unusual about a department
wanting us to investigate some other department.
Oh, I am there.
I understand, but this is a little different.
This is a...
This is going much too far.
This is a blackmail that you put in.
And you have so much time in these hearings, isn't that right?
I have referred to this blackmail, I think that is the best term I can use.
Now let me make it clear, when you normally talk about blackmail, you refer to blackmail for money,
at least that's not made to the legal definition, I'm not sure.
And here in the end of the lecture, there's nothing this has nothing to do with any finances
that this merely had to do with the publication of charges that were involved in the committee.
Well now as a matter of fact, it has now developed, at least, that the blackmail was entirely unnecessary
because Mr. Adams had a legal defense that was backed up by the highest authority in the executive department,
they made it into the general.
The conference, sure, it had been proven that the blackmail was most effective,
but it had been proven that these hearings were only called off, only called off when those false charges were made.
They effectively followed off the hearings and offer some three and a half months, I believe.
They've been spending the money of the committee, the time of the senators, our efforts,
investigating charges, which I'm sure we all agree in our false, instead of doing the job
which our committee was set up to do.
So it was a very effective blackmail.
But it was entirely unnecessary.
But it was effective, an effective action, the blackmail was not effective, because I didn't suppose it.
We'll come to that moment, but it was entirely unnecessary because this man had legal authority backing him up,
just saying simply we can't produce him because we think the law is there'll be no use to it.
You're wrong with just unclearly.
Oh, I see.
The only way I'm wrong with that, I just want to ask you, how long has this like, what's the definition?
I don't think my answers are usually wrong.
I can't say it's unnecessary.
The point is that the hearings were not called off.
I know of no other vehicle whereby they could have called them off except for the charges they should have.
Well, perhaps I've made my point clear.
Here's a man that is allegedly blackmailing you out of something that he had legal authority to do without any blackmail.
No, I don't think any legal authority.
Well, he had the attorney general backing, but better have you have something to do.
The committee has not done the attorney general, but he is, is he not?
The attorney general cannot give him a beautiful sublime.
All right.
In front of all the blackmail, I don't think the attorney general tried to.
The further more the blackmail is unnecessary, because the information, sir, that he threatened to disclose had already been disclosed to previous month in a column written by an newspaper man that you don't like.
Isn't that right?
I think that Mr. Adams has testified that he did advise with and give information to provide individuals who have been consistently against investigation.
That was out of charge.
How much of a good American column I don't know because I don't read their columns?
You remember, sir, that on December 22nd, you or your column, so have here a bonus data of an article with you based your letter, you based the purpose of your letter on December 22nd, or?
I recall it, sir.
You've also testified, sir, to discuss this newspaper story from Mr. Adams on the record.
I don't recall if I sought justice to find.
So that he was giving threatening to give out information, sir, that had already been given out to the newspapers in December, isn't that right?
I don't know how much of it he gave out to these five advisors, five of the individuals I say well, but consistently against any exposure of criminals.
But sir, those five advisors were given their information after December, not before, not during December.
I have a new idea, he's never told me.
Following that, I only know about that is when I heard him say I'm here the other day.
Well, you've had that, I mean, we have to say much of the same thing.
I was very much surprised and very shocked.
The plan that the legal advisor to the Secretary of the Army was opening his files, discussing these false charges, with the fraudulent charges, with the only with the almanes of the press, or consistently against the court.
But sir, if you will agree with me, that occurred after December 1953, so I don't know when he gave out the information.
You have access to the testimony of at least one of those newspaper men, and it's taken an executive session, have you not?
I have not seen it, Mr. Halsopp, all the time.
It was just himself, Mr. Cohn, and verified a fact, sir, that whatever information was given to Mr. Halsopp, was given after December 1953.
I only have said that Mr. Halsopp, well, what about the answer?
Well, I'm asking the question. If I go out of place, I might answer.
What's the answer?
Well, if I could say Mr. Halsopp, so testified, I personally don't know whether that testimony is true or not.
Well, he testified to that, I know.
I know, right?
I have a father's under arrest, I would put no credit whatsoever, and I'll tell him.
Mr. Halsopp, that's clear.
All right. Mr. Adams also testified to that whatever he did, he did after December 1953.
So, he had that testimony also.
I wouldn't recall all of the testimony.
If you can take my work, you can have a book.
I'll get it for you in a few minutes.
But I have a free semester.
Well, there are no on-list tickets, I'm going to even turn off the audio signature.
I'm going to go out there for a while.
I'm going to the Spire.
Mr. Jenkins, now the sun and the column has returned.
We're going to direct the comment to the subject of the chicken lunch, which I've had so much publicity to any question being here.
We regret that his distinguished friend, Abel Colley, from Arkansas, the head of the Democratic membership of our committee was not invited.
I'm not sure whether it was a shorted to chicken or something else.
I rather suspect it was because, yeah, something else.
I rather suspect it because before the public and members of the committee wanted to have a meeting with our Republican Secretary of the Army
and concerning a difficulty which had arisen between him and the chair.
So we had the lunch and I'm going to my pocket last night, changing to my other suit.
I discovered that I still have the original copy of the memorandum in my pocket.
I have never had this pudding thing there, so I'm going to take it out now and meet it.
And then I'm going to let Senator McLeod on the seat so that he will have everything that the chicken lunch and provided, he's got the chicken.
And I'll get him a chicken dinner, southern style, sometimes, to come and take the wrap.
Part of it, very far.
And you may say, will you also acquire the reactions of Secretary Steven to the working?
Actually, that is the main problem of what I'm about to pursue.
I shall do that at some length.
However, let me meet the memorandum first because it is in my own typing.
It happened that I was one of those that helped arrange the luncheon.
And I was the one there, apparently, who could type the script right about the text system.
So I served as the smogger.
And I have the original notes here.
And I'm going to show the fourth part to Senator McLeod on which was never published by I because of the suggestion of Secretary Steven.
Fourth point was never made public, so I will show that to him.
I'm sure he will continue to keep it in confidence, and I have every confidence that he will.
He said, Memo, I understand.
The luncheon comes today, attended by Secretary of the Army, Steven, and Senator Smith Harvey,
Eurickson, Munt and Papa.
The following Memo of Understanding was agreed to.
There is complete accolades between the Department of the Army and the Senate Committee on Investigations that communism and communists must be rooted out of the armed services forever and whenever.
I'm sure that Senator McLeod and Belger he would have voted I.
Item number one.
Item number two.
There is complete agreement among us that the Secretary of the Army will argue the Inspector General to complete the investigation which he ordered.
Upon my return I wrote it because he dictated this like with Secretary Steven's suggestion.
So the Secretary of my return and with such it will be changed to be his return.
My return from the Bar East on February 4th.
In the precipice as rapidly as possible, and that he will give the committees and names of everyone involved in the promotion and the under-demand.
On your vote, this charge of progress and that such individuals will be available to appear before the committee.
Had Senator McLeod and Belger I know he would have been the assistant from the second long enough to vote I for that because that is in keeping with his conviction that the public is entitled to public business and public information.
In view of the fact that Senator Simonton has requested that the calling of the Ritter should be postponed until he returns from New York.
The appearance of the Ritter will be deferred.
If the committee then decides to call of the Ritter, Secretary Steven stated that a set time Ritter will be available.
I'm sure my distinguished colleague would have voted in support of his Democratic colleague to carry out the request that we Republicans meeting along with our chickens voted to do.
Incidentally, subsequently General Swicker would never call.
The fourth point is written out in my handwriting and I give that now to Senator McLeod so he has all the facts.
I have no great feeling that if he wants to disclose that he may have something that is not important but if he has written in and then if he suggests in the Secretary Steven, he was left out of the public police.
I mentioned that simply to point out that in a good-natured vein, Senator McLeod has here several times in the Secretary Steven had continued to advise only with the Democrats as he did for a while.
He would have gotten along much better than he had if all of them was at the gang of Republicans before we had chicken dinner.
I think really that was a pretty good memorandum of understanding.
I know the Secretary Steven thought it was a pretty good memorandum of understanding for a while because we posed together.
We had pictures taken. Many of the members of the press who are now here were there then. They saw him smile.
They saw the handshake. After he left, something happened.
I don't know whether he got back in touch with his Democratic colleagues again or what happened.
I had no criticism of the fact that subsequently Secretary Steven did feel that he hadn't gotten this much from the agreement as he had hoped.
I think perhaps somebody had reported a statement which for the first time I had denied under oath and I was mighty happy to hear it denied under oath for some of the Democrats for yesterday.
When he testified under oath that he did not say and had never said that after the chicken dinner, he made a statement that to the general effects of Secretary Steven said that capitulated and had come crawling on his celly to the committee.
I think he would have been a very unjust and a very unkind and a very unfair and a very uncouth and a very untrue statement because certainly no such thing took place.
As the man who did the typing I can assure you that all five of us participating in the lunch contributed to the memorandum of understanding and the Secretary Steven contributed his very share.
Now in that connection I know and I know with no particular question the fact that our Republican Secretary of the Army didn't come to the Republican members of the committee to seek the counsel of the Republican lawyers and how best to get along with the Republican Congress in case he went to one of the Democrats.
We suggested an eminent lawyer in this community by the name of cart foot which it was his perfect way to do. They are fellow Democrats, they are fellow Nigerians, they are friends.
I have no thought that the way is the intriguing way in which politics is free because politics is a consistent being what it is I can well understand that Mr. Clifford would undoubtedly advise a Republican Secretary of the Army on how to get along with a Republican Congress.
Some might get to me from what he would publish in law you would have advised a Republican Secretary of the Army on how to get along with a Republican Congress.
Under the circumstances I would like to ask you for a first and foremost request. You may have a second time if you are here and I thank you for your extremely unjustly humane and a fine 30th record in the five so he would advise the Secretary of the Army as a Democrat and fall of the politics instead of as an American.
When he came to him with the story of Jim Wicker, he could fall in the new climate. I think he's done a great injury and I am deeply regretful to have you injected with extremely strong, a threat to the people of the country.
The Joe and Tom Jeff is out here in the closed room. Very well you have your strength to take your point of personal service here if I have something unkind that's hard to put in.
Clifford who I do not know at all is not intention. I should always say that right now you're also uncuning my money.
I'm not following in the Senate. I was asked if you would say and I think you start waiting for the closing here. I had no intention of impending you move.
I said something which I now repeat which I think is compatible with human nature. And that is I really believe that any democratic lawyer I mean for the subject will be in fine to advise a Republican Secretary of the Army on how to get along with the government.
Some of them in a different way from what a Republican lawyer would advise the same client under the same condition.
I was impending to use it.
No, you're planning to associate and follow them and follow the jury in Mr. Clifford. No, you're in class and more than the very kind.
I was simply recording the fact that I presume that advice must have come from Mr. Clifford to Mr. Stevens power in the Czechombranches rather than people.
I assume that he's on the spot so that I was only one to two thousand. I was totally incorrect by state of yesterday that the last time in any way of any power that Mr. Clifford held a God in touch with the Secretary of the Army.
He did not get it. So the Secretary of the Army got in touch with him from Sunday, February 21st.
There's been several days before the famous kicking lunches. The shocking reaction of the Army is to say so I only read it in the papers of the year.
But I want to just say this again that at the time that Mr. Clifford discussed this matter with the Secretary of the Army,
the Gatjins for Sunday, February 21st. And I must say to all his candidations,
one to call that along with many other witnesses, witnesses, the Democratic members of the Committee,
wise to call in order to get the truth to the people about this situation,
to charm on himself, holding against calling all those witnesses and putting the picture.
I want to remember the term which there are a lot to conclude to me, the little color of it in his time in the trace.
I want to say again that he is appealing to no one, improperly, if in fact the two conferences which we now know
took place between Mr. Clifford and Secretary Stevens, did take place before the 22nd of February,
then the chair is intrigued. He is neither perturbed nor provoked by the facts that he is intrigued by the facts
that having discussed this general situation. Will Secretary Stevens, on a claim by ourselves all the way up to
bowing for his other day of the 22nd, he learned nothing at that time about the facts that there were.
I know I have my day going on. The 22nd is the 22nd, I understand from Mr. Kennedy.
I had thought I would think that was the 23rd. I think that was the 23rd.
No one was one Sunday.
As I say, it was not disturbing. It would intrigue me a little bit, however,
if the conference took place before we had this long talk going to Valley Poetry,
something we said to me about it because I am a Republican. I am a Fendipotent.
And I'm fairly intrigued about the fact that at this long-kick election when we relate information
to each other about every conceivable phase of this, none of us at that time learned anything about the facts
that our Republican Secretary of the Army had been getting some guidance from Mr. Clifford.
In other words, I think we just perhaps have been helpful to him.
As we know, something about it at that time. Now, I have a question.
Could I say a word at this point, sir? Yes, I ask you.
We cannot take it out of my time. So, if I'm just interested in you, you may.
It seems to me very unfortunate that this affair should be coming into this case at this time
with the Secretary's evens as I know on either gone or about to go to the chronic low Virginia
on very important business for the Army. On my knowledge of this whole affair,
which is either confined to the newspapers, which I did not read so beautifully there
this time, I might today or my conversations with Mr. Steven,
it seems to me that things are being said here very swiftly and perhaps a little loosely as to what went on.
And I think in fairness, Mr. Steven, you ought to commend the ought now to agree that he may submit.
In writing, a statement on this point, if he sold his irres,
it strikes me that he might feel very deeply that he would waste his submits at his statement
and in fairness, I ask Mr. Chairman that you allow him to do so in his earned convenience.
The Chair would certainly speak to himself, be very glad to agree to having submits on this statement
because I am sure that he would submit a true recital of the facts as they are.
With the Chair, I think most of that advice about that, I don't think we need a motion.
I think we can do that. I'm General Consent. The request is to welcome.
As I have seen with my knowledge council, as the President of the Robert Kennedy Institute,
the first time is my there ever since they're doing so.
I thought of it because we went too long.
Down before it's under 22nd, then the Secretary had called me in the evening before
and that is now part of the monogamous transcripts.
It's from the monogamous transcripts, of course, that I have picked up the only information that I have about Mr. Trump.
Not just one of the statements. As the Vice-Chair voted, will the Republican colleagues not to call Mr. Shine for General Law or Mr. Tripp?
The Chair stated at that time that if any of them were to request that they be heard,
the Chair was willing to change his role.
That was at least a week ago, Mr. Clifford's name has been divorced for at least two weeks.
The Chair recognizes the perfect propriety of Mr. Clifford protecting the client, the lawyer relationship,
which exists between lawyers and lawyers.
The Chair recognizes the perfect propriety of son and the crafty and suggesting that Mr. Clifford work all.
He would want to try to change the witness in to confirm or to replace or to question that.
The Chair recognizes the perfect propriety of Mr. Ruff, saying that if General Law or Mr. Shine would call,
what would the room were expected to testify more in favor of the McCarthy kind of this country versus another fact?
That Mr. Ruff, properly, would share the right to call a series of other witnesses to confirm or to replace,
but General Law and Mr. Shine would say.
The fact remains there for the two weeks on the screen.
The terminate these hearings, it was necessary some place to specify the final list of witnesses.
The Chair will now say publicly that he has no worry or no communication of any kind from Mr. Shine or General Law,
on Mr. Clark suggesting or requesting that they be caught.
None of them have been in any way shaped or formed in contact with the Chair up to this conclusion.
One day of the hearing, now that the Chair has said he is not at all in derogation.
Are there any of these three individuals who are subject to put the record straight and the point out to my good friend from Arkansas that perhaps the Secretary of the Army hadn't fallen in with such a bad gang after all when he had lunch there.
Because the member of understanding, I think, indicates a course of action which might have provided harmony instead of the kind of disarmament that we have had now for so many unhappy months.
I'm sure that he can't decide on the subject.
I can't.
Can I make a request to the Chair first?
The mouth here is from some of your signings and statements.
I'm just going to say that there was a call between Mr. Clark, Clepper and Secretary Stevens on February 21st.
If so, we can assume that is monitored.
I wonder if we can have that call at the opening of the afternoon session.
I shall move.
Yes.
I am very just one of all the monitored calls we are not produced.
I don't know why someone may have been held back.
Chair, we can only brought out and we discover them by accident.
Mr. Wells, can you produce that at 130?
I am told and so inquired about that.
If there was such a telephone conversation that the family was not from Mr. Stevens office because there is no monitor record of it.
Okay.
Well, I think that is an easy call.
It has been a personal conference.
There is no monitor call, of course.
It cannot be produced.
I have a report.
Chair, I have a report.
As a lawyer, not a politician.
I am not very well informed.
I can only say to you that I know there is no monitor call of this conversation.
I do not need to innovate that there was such.
I know there is a business area.
But we have now arranged that Mr. Stevens may submit a statement in writing covering this point.
It has been under discussion if he so desires.
And if he exercises that right, he will tell you what has happened.
Very well, and the chair, of course, will be happy to incorporate in the record.
The secretary calls to the chair's mind the fact that our motion not to call Mr. Clifford.
They have not called Mr. Shine and not to call General Watten was confirmed.
Both them, Mr. Wells, speaking for his side of the controversy.
And then Mr. Cohen and Senator McRphy speaking for their side.
The chair now recognizes Senator McRphy.
Yes.
I would like to say something about that call.
Mr. McCormack, you may have to the name of Mr. Clifford was injected into these hearings.
I asked him what did anything have been his relationship with Mr. Stevens after our last country.
He said that he saw Mr. Stevens once, not as one Friday, February the 19th.
That's for the best of his recollection.
Mr. Stevens had called him on Sunday.
February the 21st.
He was not sure of that, but that was the best of his recollection.
One and two, all of this I have testified to in detail before this committee.
Now, Mr. Chairman, before Senator McRphy and speaks, if I may, I understand that Mr. Cohen has seen some testimony of Mr. Al Sas,
which I have not yet seen.
And I respectfully request that all executive testimony of any character, whatever, has been taken in these hearings,
be published and made a part of the record.
Mr. Mayor, say in advance to the parliament, if you have not seen it, because you have not shown down the office to look for it.
Then there are types of over a week and your minority councilor, Sir Al Kennedy, has seen it.
It's the most extraordinary business when the council and the principals in the case,
so allow to see testimony law before the members of the committee, and I don't see why the American people model Al Sas is.
There is just a general rest in this now as we are.
If you'll give me a hand right over your shoulder, it has come from Mr. Kennedy.
He will tell you he has seen it.
Have I not?
No, I have not.
Mr. Mayor, I have not yet seen it.
Have I not the approval of the chairman of the commission?
You have not, because the chairman's found about the rule of the committee, which precludes the commissioners.
Senator McCommott.
Can I ask when are the signings correct?
The record I'm sure it didn't mean to make a mistake.
He said, I have testified three times.
I wonder if you wouldn't correct that to show that you have never testified, but you've never refused to testify.
So you have never taken the oath.
Well, I would be glad if you correct that.
I have mentally say that I told you, and the members of Mr. May, in detail, are all that I knew,
who respect this particular subject, and I also again would mind you that there is a very simple way for me to testify on the rule of the former committee.
I never found any of that sentence.
Mr. Chairman, I would like to, if I may, Mr. Chairman.
You'll find the right answer.
I think you might tell about Mr. Chairman.
I just want to make it clear that the senator signings himself, he has told me.
I want to make it very clear if he didn't tell us anything about the relationship of Clark Cropper.
The Clark Cropper was advising Secretary Stevens until we finally discovered that in the monitored phone calls.
During all the executive sessions, when they sent a hundred Missouri,
was urging that I had made up my mind in this case,
I think that if he wanted to be completely sincere that time he should have told us
that he had not only made up his mind, but that he had gotten the lawyer, had urged Mr. Stevens not to testify,
and was in effect one of the moving forces here.
Now, at this late date, I know what a great waste of time to suggest to the senator from Missouri,
that in the event of fact, he wanted her call, proved so clearly that he was trying to call on with Ruckus.
I don't have the waste of time, they asked him to step down and not act as a judge.
I don't want to share what he decides.
I could write his report the way he'd write it right now,
but I don't like these protestations of great piafate,
and he wants the people to get all the facts when the senator from Missouri has lost within his mind facts,
which would be a value to us.
For example, I would like very much to know that one of the matters that has been accused in this case,
what part, the principal advisor of the Democrat Party has taken in calling on these hearings,
I think the American people would like to know that.
I think they would like to know it under all senators.
Why am I not a minister of justice today, and calling on those?
Because, because as you know, Senator, Mr. Clifford having a lawyer-quant relationship with you and Mr. Stevens,
cannot refuse to testify.
You were the man with the glad that you become a man of the man of the committee.
You were the man of the senator.
You were the man that you give us the information.
I'm not going to press the point you further.
I think you should.
Senator Todd, here's comments.
Mr. Chairman, I will vote.
I want to make the record for Mr. Clifford.
Mr. Clifford notified me, and I told one of the five of the committees that he would be very glad to testify
before this committee gets a committee wanted in too.
I still notified the committee prior to the committee voting for the three not to have intensified.
Turn them to the right here, comments.
Mr. Chairman.
There may be those who get a great deal of comfort.
Out of such hallowed angers have been injected into these proceedings this morning.
But I doubt it's a fine law of patriotic commerce.